Linux Commands

 

1. ls-to list the contents of a directory
2.ps- to list the running processes
  ps -aux  -used to manage and monitor a program's memory usage,
        processor time, and I/O resources.
3.mpstat-provides the information about cpu performance and utilization by giving cpu statistics.
4.ls-l -will print the name of all the files and directories only.
5.ls-lh - to know the size of a file.
6.ls -a -to show all files including hidden one.
7.ls -R - to list the directories recursively.
  Ls -lrt- to list the contents of the directory.
8.ls-lhs-to list the files longest at the top.
9.env-to list all the environment variables.
10.echo-to print the text
11.whoami-to know the currently logged user.
12.sudo su-to go to root user.
13.sudo bash-to change the currently logged user to another user.
14.Top-to display information about cpu and memory utilization.
        It provides a dynamic real-time view of the running system.
         processes that are consuming most system resources.
15.pwd-to know prasent working directory.
16.ls -ltc-last modified file will come first.
17.uname -r-to  know kernel release number.
18.uname -m- to know kernel machine type.
19.uname -o- to know name of Operating system.
   uname -n- to know the hostname
   uname -p to know the processors
   uname -a to now all info of kernal,hostname etc..
   uname -s store information identifying the current system in the structure pointed to by name.
20.cd- :to go to last working directory.
21.history-will display all commands till now.
22.mkdir- to create a directory.
23.cddir-to move inside directory.
24.touch - to create a file.
25. vi -to edit the file.
26. cat - to see the content inside the file.
27.head -3 filename-to see the first 3 lines of a file.
28.tail -4 filename-to see the last 3 lines of a file.
29.wc -l-to know the number of lines in a file
30.wc -w-to know the number of words in a file.
31.wc-m- to know the number of characters in a file.
32.sort -n filename  -to sort the contents of a file numerically.
33.sort -u filename - to sort the contents of a file alphabetically.
34.Grep: is used to search for a string/keyword of characters in a specified file.
Grep -i "swati"-it will highlet the word swati.
Grep a.. filename -it will highlet two letters after a.
Grep ..a filename- it will highlet two letters before a.
Grep -c filename- it will show how many shiva words are there in a file.
chmod +x filename- to give all permissions.
cp- to copy files and directories from one directory to another
mv-  move files and directories from one directory to another or to rename a file or directory
tar- tar -cvf tes.tar test
     tar -xvf 
gz- tar -czvf test.tar.gz test
     tar -xzvf

zip -m test.zip -delete the original files after the zip file is created.
zip -e secret.zip -to create a password-protected zip file.
sudo usermod -a -G java username

netstat -pnltu
corn -e,-l,-r,-v
***** /bin/bash /home/user/desktop/filename.sh

netstat -pntlu 
netstat -anp | grep apache

The du command displays the number of blocks used for files
df command is used to display the disk space used in the file system.

lsof -i -n -p | grep LISTEN 































