What is the State File in Terraform?
When you run terraform apply command to create an infrastructure on cloud, 
Terraform creates a state file called “terraform.tfstate”. This State File contains full details of resources in our terraform code. 
When you modify something on your code and apply it on cloud, terraform will look into the state file,
 and compare the changes made in the code from that state file and the changes to the infrastructure based on the state file.  

What is the Terraform Backup State File?
Terraform has another file called terraform.tfstate.backup . This file is like a version of the tfstate file
Whenever we modify something on our code and apply it, our tfstate file will change our resources’ information. 
At that point this backup file acts as an old version of the state file. 
So the modified resources details are in the tfstate file, and the old tfstate file will be transferred to tfstate.backup file


Use S3  for Locking State File
Here we use our S3 bucket as a backend for storing our state file in shared storage. 
It helps to use the same state file for multiple users who have access to the S3 bucket.

Use Terraform Workspaces for Isolating State File
 For example, if you want to change something for testing purposes in a staging environment, 
you may have accidentally applied the changes in the Production environment that are really worse.
 For this type of caution, here Terraform Workspaces comes in.
 We can use every workspace for each environment. 

Basic commands for Terraform State
terraform state list ------- List all the objects that are present in the state file. Just take a list of all the resources names.
terraform state show <resource_name> -- Show details about an object in the state file. It gives complete details of a particular resource mentioned in the command
terraform state mv <resource_name>------ this command we just move the new configuration to the old one with the new name. So,
 it won’t delete the resource and recreate it, just modify the changes. 
terraform state pull   --------------- Output of the current state to standard out (get all resources).It will give the complete detail of our state file in a standard format.
terraform state push---------------Update remote state from local. It helps to manually update a local state file to a remote state.


